Dear Flora 周艾彤,

At this time of writing, you had just turned 2 weeks.  The days are long, and the weeks are short, and the past few days feel like an eternity, as Mom and I transition into parenthood, watching you grow with vigor and vitality.  This letter holds some of my thoughts as a new Dad, which I would like to share with you when you come of age.

---

Last week, we celebrated your first birth week.  Mom and I gave our wishes secretly (as is the tradition for birthday wishes to be kept secret), but later confirmed it was the same wish:

> We wish for you to have a healthy, happy, and fulfilling life.

I do not expect this fundamental wish to change, but I will remind myself, throughout my role as a father, to not let the details of our evolving family experiences and expectations distract from this core wish we have for you.

---

Two weeks ago, on your _birth_ day (April 7, 2025), you came and joined us in our new family.  Both you and Mom endured a tough labor and delivery, and we are grateful and blessed to have both of you in safe health and recovery.  It taught me the real meaning behind the saying "Life is precious", and I will always treasure you and Mom.  A thinking occurred to me at that very moment:

> Your birth is likely the most difficult thing (potentially life-threatening) that _both_ you and Mom had to experience.  Therefore, no future experience should ever surpass that.  This is a reminder that while we all face growing challenges in our life experiences, we can remind ourselves that we will always conquer them as we have conquered all the great challenges that preceded it.

You were born in beautiful California (San Mateo), in the season of spring.  Just as Nature springs into life with its flora and fauna, you – Flora, have sprung into vibrant life.

---

A few months ago, when you were still in the womb of Mom, she had thought of your name and shared it: "Flora".  It became clear this was going to be your name, as our home had _naturally evolved_ to welcome you: the _Florilegium_ book we had purchased independently prior to the ideation of your name, the landscaping I had worked on blossoming in spring near your birth.  It was as if _Nature_ herself was welcoming you.

---

I tend to view life as an evolving _live_ painting, with myself as the artist finishing my life's work.  I developed a deeper understanding of harmony of Man and Nature over the years while landscaping.  Every layer is added harmoniously as the environment is developed.  It is sensitive to both the gardener's design and initial actions, yet needs to be open to an evolving environment and adjusted over time.  Harmony only exists if the states of being are in tune with each other _over a period_ of time (the states could be in discord in shorter periods of time, but the greater whole is harmonious).  Despite this developing understanding, I would never expect that you bring the _true_ meaningful layer into this evolving live painting.  I look forward to how you would evolve that painting of your life and your parents' lives.

I have a developing philosophy that is further solidified by your birth:

> Existence is only possible because of 和, the _harmonious_ existence of everything else (before/around/after).

As the stardust spin down into galaxies, the celestial bodies have to achieve an equilibrium with their stars for continued existence.  Life is born in the right conditions and evolves out of a need for survival (as many understand it to be), but from a perspective of harmony, life evolves to achieve an equilibirum at a greater scale.  Just as the evolving garden of flora and fauna presents the broader harmonious ecosystem, it is always assured that forms will eventually exist, just as Nature produces the trees without effort.  And fast forward to the equilibirum of human species and civilization, despite the strife and suffering that exists, our very existence is only possible because of the stability and harmony of our evolved species.  Bring that all the way down to our family lines, and our immediate family, to Mom and I, and to yourself.  All this is only possible because of the stability and harmonious states that precede it, and I hope you and our family continue to evolve this harmony meaningfully in our lives.

We love you very much, and look forward to raising you in good health and spirit.

Love,
Dad
2025-04-21

---

P.S.
The following are additional thoughts that formed during the two weeks of your birth:

- When you were born, I stared into your eyes.  I saw you, and I saw myself in your eyes' reflection, and saw that reflection of myself staring into something (you) _ad infinitum_.  I see the world in you, and the world is seen through you.
- The word virtue has a few meanings: 1) behavior showing high moral standards, 2) a good or useful quality of a thing.  Your Chinese name 周艾彤 indicates the virtues of healing and vitality.  It represents real virtue (as in the second definition of the word), a quality that you possess, of healing and vitality, which we increasingly see you innately possessing in your strong vigorous two weeks of healing and development.  It does not represent "imitation/fake virtues" (as in the first definition of the word), where Man and society proposes the ideal thoughts and behaviors everyone should aim to achieve.  I would rather much prefer that you lean on your intrinsic naturedness and goodness as a guide in life, and live virtuously in the true sense of the word.
- I have always known Mom to be a _good_ person.  She is perceived by others to be a good person by her actions (no ill-will towards others, seldom complains/gossips/slanders etc), but she is simply good in the sense of the virtue of goodness (see preceding thought).  As you are born, I see a pure and good being (as most newborns are), and I understand fully the saying that "The nature of Man is good.".  While sin and suffering eventually falls upon us, I now fully understand (and also hope that you understand as you come of age), to not forget the innate purity and goodness that is in you, and let that be a guide for you in life.  I know that Mom is good, and you are good.  I also know that I have flaws and sins, but because I understand goodness through you and Mom, I know that I am good, and as a result, I know that the world is also good as there is intrinsic goodness in everyone.
- I learned that while one should have plans and goals in life, one should be willing to openly adjust them.  That is something both Mom and I learned while raising you in the early weeks.  We hope you are able to keep your life choices open and free, and live a life that best expresses the inner you.
- As new parents, we learned raising children like yourself, is the most difficult thing we will likely every do in life, but we know it is the most rewarding thing we will ever do in our lives.  And by that token, we also understand our parents better, and develop that understanding further into better perspectives of others and the world.
