# 2022-01-01

## Source
- [The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching](https://openlibrary.org/works/OL115690W/The_heart_of_the_Buddha%27s_teaching)
- [Living Buddha, Living Christ](https://openlibrary.org/works/OL15373820W/Living_Buddha_living_Christ)

## Stream

Perception is conditioned, like a wave. Insight is unconditioned, like a lake.  It is arrived through mindfulness and is neither perception nor non perception.

A physical object becomes an abstract subject once placed in the mind.  In the physical world, it objectively exists but it only subjectively exists in the mind on deliberate thought.  In the conscious realm, it does exist and can no longer be “removed”.  Your world could be expanded by simply having the right thoughts on objects in the cosmos and the cosmos itself becomes a subject in your mind.

Understand the seeds and roots of your thoughts for they grow into our actions and behaviors.  These are dormant and unconscious seeds if not discovered.  Both lost opportunities and unintended harms are created from a lack of mindfulness on your store consciousness

Our store consciousness holds seeds that germinate our thoughts. Be in a state to create positive energy from these seeds while keeping others dormant.  Like nature, good seeds should just spring to life when the rain falls into the soil.  Little to no effort is required if one reaches such a state.

There is suffering. Suffering is caused by something. Suffering can lead to well-being. Understand your suffering and Focus turning suffering into well-being

You are the most fortunate when you have nothing to lose. Don’t let the pursuit of happiness get in the way of happiness.

There are technically right and wrong views but on a deeper reflections all views are wrong.  They are just points of views.  The ultimate viewpoint is the right view is the absence of views.

Mindfulness: developing a conscious subconscious.  At times we act with a subconscious conscious, with  ill intents and unknowingly hurting or in greed or in fear

We are mirrors in this world. We are reflections of the people and world we experience. I am a reflection of Einstein, of my dad and mom, of people I love and respect. I am my dad. I am my mom. I am myself.  We can choose who we become by how we reflect ourselves. People do not carry your values but they do carry your image forward to others. That is a multiplicative and powerful amplifier on how we shape the world.

All there is is water, air, and earth.  The earth we stand on, the air we breathe in our longs, the water in us and our blood.  The same water in the air as clouds, passing by mountains of earth.  The elements of Nature is malleable and all there is is a change of form.

Transcending perception we receive insight.  Similarly, without insight we only have perception, and by the same token deception.  True wisdom and knowledge can only be found with insight.

Water is not water (it’s shapes and state and form), then only is it true water.

An oak tree is not an oak tree, therefore it is a true oak tree.

Love is not love, therefore it is truly love.

Happiness is not happiness, therefore it is truly happy.

You are not yourself (your perception of yourself), and therefore you are truly you.

Freedom is freeing yourself.

I dwell in the Buddha/God/Love/Peace/Myself and hence they dwell in me.

The heavens do not say anything (Confucius). We just don’t understand or listen to them.

The clear lake reflects the flying bird but does not try to hold onto its image.  The bamboo whistles when the wind blows.  It still grows when the wind stops.

Live mindfully in every moment and you become the moment.

The wave is just water.  The water is the wave.

The world is impermanent.  The wave does not exist and is simply the ocean.  Through emptiness you see intereverything.  The universe is contained in nothingness and nothingness reveals the universe.

See past the signs (the shapes and forms of water and emotions) and into the true nature of things. You will see we all coexist and are dependently related.

If we no longer see signs, our perception evolves into insight.

We feel anxious without signs because we are still attached to them. Only when we can touch the signless nature of the world will we be free.

By definition, if we see signs, we see illusions.  True View is seeing past the signs.

The signless world is the wonderous reality of Nature.

There is nothing to transcend, nothing to prove, nothing to gain. All of that is relative.  The absolute truth is the nature of the world and you.  Just live and be you.

Nirvana, the extinction of all concepts.  Nature is nirvana and our goal is to return back to the Garden of Eden, undoing the ingestion of the Forbidden Fruit of Knowledge.  Just as the plants and animals in Eden live harmoniously and happily, that should be our path to liberation.

All conditioned things are impermanent. They are phenomena bounded by birth and death.  When birth and death no longer bound you, the complete silencing of concepts is joy.  Nirvana is joy, joy is nirvana.

You cannot control anything in the world but your actions.  They are your true belongings.  You cannot the escape the consequences of your actions.  Your actions are the ground on which I stand.

Touch the water (absolute truth) in the wave (perception) to touch reality/Universe/Nirvana

I think, therefore I am NOT

To see past signs, you need signs.  To reach Nirvana, you need concepts.  We are already living in Signlessness/Nirvana/Heaven but have simply not touched it.

No knowledge or experience can dictate the true nature of that experience. Living in Singapore for 1,2,30 years will never equate to the true nature or concept of living in Singapore.  It simply does not exist and only exists if the concept is void.  It is only the true View/Experience/Nature if it is good of concepts. A is not A, therefore it is truly A.

Birth, death, being, nonbeing are all notions.  Nirvana is the death of notions.

Buddhism is only true Buddhism if the concept of Buddhism is extinguished.  Enlightenment is only true enlightenment if the concept of enlightenment is extinguished.

Nirvana is not the absence of life, it can only be reached by the journey of seeing and extinguishing concepts.  Nirvana is in this very life.

We only need to return to ourselves to touch our true nature. And we will experience true peace and joy because we are simply ourselves.

I woke up to the busy march of ants, beginning another day of rebuilding their world across thousands of lifetimes, only to realize it has already been completed just that long ago.

Peace begins with me.

Do not be attached to the sign (of a tragedy).  The mountains, rivers and trees are our teachers.

Signs: self, person, living being, life

Aimlesssness: there is nothing to do, to realize, no program, no agenda. It just is.  An oak tree is an oak tree. You are just you.  Free yourself by freeing the illusion of your aims.

All suffering is born from wrong perceptions. (Story of a sailsman crashing into a boat with a person and being angry at it before the realization).  We perceive phenomenon based on the basis of our lack of insight on the true nature of impermanent and interbeing.

Be the gardener of your mind.  Water only the good seeds of consciousness and continue to tend to the bad weeds and seeds.  The bad exists and can never be removed but you can manage the energy level of your garden and subsequently the world garden.


Conditions and seeds for happiness and suffering already in you. You just have to realize and touch them.

We want to return to our true home but we are in a habit of running away.  All we have to do is stop, to sit, to pause and take no action and be at peace with the present.

Greet your Maras and negative energy and acknowledge them, and they will run away. They thrive when you are least aware of them.

Try to have a bigger heart. You will understand compassion and transform hatred to something positive. You will also suffer less. An infinite heart suffers nothing just as an ocean can never be burned.

The ones who hold guns and shoot and spit at us, they are not the enemies. They are not the makers of war.  See past the perceptions and into the reality. Stop the cycle of hatred and suffering.  War is born if wrong policies of wrong understandings.  Help people realize that.

If you nourish hatred and anger, you only burn yourself.  Understanding is the only way out.  Peace begins with me.

Everything bears the nature of nothing (nirvana)

There is no cause and effect.  The chicken is the egg and the egg is the chicken.  Everything is interdependent and coarising.  Everything the cosmos manifests requires the cosmos itself.  The one contains the all.

This is because that is. This is not because that is not. This comes to be because that comes to be. This ceases to be because that ceases to be.  This is this because that is that.

When you look at the flower, it is not just a flower but your consciousness.  You are the flower. The flower is you.

We can appreciate beauty (it’s impermanence) but we do not need to be attached to it.  We can be fearful but we do not need to suppress our feelings.  We just have to realize suffering exists and transform it by seeing a path forward.

Equanimity does not mean indifference.  We accept the beautiful and the ugly with neither attachment or aversion and treat both with respect.  Equanimity means to let go, not to abandon.  Abandoning causes suffering.  When we are not attached, we can simply let go.

Be born and die without getting caught in the wrong ideas about birth and death. A leaf is both alive and dead (growing and wilting).  The lead knows neither and as it falls to the ground it becomes part of the earth and grows into a new leaf.

The place beyond birth and death is in the midst of birth and death.  Nirvana does not exist outside birth and death. It is in birth and death. It is birth and death.

The world, society, and individual (interrelated) are conditioned by the deluded mind which leads to suffering.  We should seek to condition them with the Right mind.  The mind of the people is the basis of paradise.  Start with yourself and pass it onto others.

Happiness does not lie in the conditions around you.  It lies in your heart.  If you find yourself, you find happiness.

You have the right to suffer but as a practitioner you do not have the right not to practice.  We all need to be understood and loved but the practice is not merely to expect understanding and love. It is to practice understanding and love.  Don’t complain if you feel no one understands or loved you.  Make the effort to understand and love them better.

This exists because that exists.  This will be because that has been. This is because that is. This is this because that is that. This is that because that is this.

Our mind is the Garden of Eden, boundless and plentiful.  We water the seeds of our mind and eat the fruits.  The Forbidden Fruit is the seed of sin that we have watered and eaten.  Salvation lies not in escaping our past but in realizing we are still in Eden and only need to tend to this Garden.

Beyond finding the Path of suffering is just the Stream and the Source.  Both have always existed. In the Past, Present, and the Future.  Life is a journey from the Source and rediscovering it.

I see the wood in the tree and the tree in the wood.  I see myself in the tree and the tree in myself.

When you find Enlightenment don’t keep it to yourself, one might argue that will be the source of your suffering if you try to share that insight.  But if you are truly Enlightened, then no amount of suffering matters.  The reason you share is you see everything in the world being interlinked.

We are many, we are one.  The Universe has many, the universe is one.

If Heaven is in the skies, the birds will get there first.  If it is in the sea, the fish will get there first.  The Kingdom is inside and outside of you. When you know yourself, you will be known and live in the kingdom of God. If you will not know yourself then you dwell in poverty and it is you who are that poverty.

Whoever has not know himself knows nothing but he who has known himself already understands the depth of all things.

Let the one who seeks not stop seeking until he finds.  When he finds he shall be troubled.  When he becomes troubled he will be amazed, and shall come to transcend all things.

If you bring forth what is within you, what you bring forth will save you.  If you do not bring forth what is within you, what you do not bring forth will destroy you.

When you touch someone who is authentic, you do not just touch them, you touch yourself.

Dialogue happens when both individuals are willing to learn.  On the contrary there is nothing to learn if we plan to argue since we already know our viewpoint best.  Dialogue involves listening more than speaking.

Dialogue must be practiced on the basis of non-self.  However dialogue must begin from oneself, before engaging with other selves.  Our capacity to make peace depends on our capacity to make peace within ourselves.  Peace starts with me.

What do monks do? We sit, we walk, we eat.  Everyone does that too but not mindfully.

It is pointless to talk about nirvana/God, which is the extinction of concepts itself.  We experience nirvana by living and experiencing it.

It is not a matter of faith, it is a matter of practice.  All of us already have the seeds of awakening in us.

Humans are humans, but what is the human spirit that transcends our physical flesh and deluded mind?

It is not about faith but practice.  The Kingdom does not exist after death.  It exists by living and practicing.  We do not go to the Kingdom, it comes to us.  Thy Kingdom come.

Do not get caught by ideas and symbols, by relative and Absolute truths, by the means and the end, the raft and the shore, the finger pointing to the moon and the moon.

What surpasses notions of self and non-self is the freedom of notions of both self and non-self.

For a Buddhist to be attached to any doctrine, including a Buddhist one, is to betray the Buddha.

It is not words or concepts that are important but our insight and response to the true nature of reality.

Religions exist because the mind attached to symbols. True spirituality detached from symbols and you enter the heart of God and not the symbol of God.

God is not God, therefore God is truly God.

Instead of seeking happiness or Heaven, just be happy and in the present Heaven.  Because you are alive, everything is possible.  Just be because it already is.  That is the miracle of life.

Science is not Right View.  It is a logical view right with the mechanisms of Nature.  The wrong view of science is our attachment to this logical view.  The Right View is understanding that this view is simple one of many views, and is still a perception catering to a specific mindset of our perception of the world.  Freedom of views will allow us to truly experience and touch Nature.

You can only awaken others if you are awakened, and can be reawakened if put to sleep.  You can only light another candle if you are a lighted candle, and can be lighted by your inner spark.

Peace is not attained by destroying Evil for that is evil itself.  Looking deeply, we see that the evil of others is a deeper manifestation of our illness in our collective consciousness.  Peace begins with me, with the Right View, and onto others.

While we think an individual cannot change the affairs of the world, we are only thinking from an attached point of view.  How can one change the world with others if no one, let alone yourself, had the Right View? Peace begins with me.

Peace does not end with cessation of weapons.  Even if we destroyed all weapons, the roots and seeds of war still exist in our hearts and minds.

Replace the symbol of your enemy as the truth of someone who is also suffering, and that opens true insight into conflict.

When we take sides, we misunderstand the Will of God (or lack insight into the view).  Suffering exists on either side if any side is suffering.

Non-violence does not mean non action. It means we ACT with love and compassion.

The answer is Love.  How can you love an enemy? The only way is Undersranding.  Understand why They are the way they are, how they came to be, how they cannot see and act the way they do.  With understanding, they no longer become the enemy and you see them as a Brother or Sister to love and help.

With understanding, you see yourself in others, and others in yourself.  You are me and I am you.

Our generation is lost and uprooted.  We are not grounded as a society and how can we water and grow into stable trees for a next generation of seeds?

Welcome your anger just as a mom acknowledges and transforms a baby’s cry into comfort.

Drugs and substance is dangerous because it empowers the deluded mind on the symbols it sees but not the true symbolless nature of reality.

Experiential (non symbolic) not intellectual (symbolic)

There is no way to Happiness.  Happiness is the way.

There is no way to Understanding.  Understanding is the way.

There is no way to Peace.  Peace is the way.

There is no way to Enlightenment.  Enlightenment is the way.

There is no way to salvation.  Salvation is the way.

There is no End to Enlightenment.  It always grows and is infinite.

The only permanent thing is impermanence.  Nothing is permanent if it is perceived.

Nirvana cannot be described.  Nothing can be conceived or talked about.  You cannot describe anything to anyone if they have not experienced it (eg the taste of apple).  Things cannot be described by concepts and words.  They can only be encountered by direct experience.  The mind will then attach a perception to that experience and Nirvana once again slips away from our mind.

In the same way above, we cannot talk about Heaven/Life/Death without experiencing it.  The only way to know is to look deeply in yourself, practice and experience life itself.  Heaven/Life/Death/Nirvana already exists by simply living and experiencing it.  That is the miracle of life.

Be an island onto yourself, a Kingdom onto yourself.  Take refuge in yourself and not in anything else.  There you will find peace.

Soul/Spirit/God/Nature/True/Self are all symboless.

When you shine a light, darkness disappears.  When there is love, hatred disappears.  When there is peace, suffering disappears.  Love and peace begins with me.

To go to the Kingdom of God is to go to your own heart.  In your heart you will find God.

Pre-incarnation over reincarnation. You have always existed, exist, and will exist.  Instead of rebirth/reincarnation, things are already there.  The flower yet to bloom already exists in the universe.  It will MANIFEST.

Even the self is impermanent.  All elements come together for limited period of time (body, feelings, perceptions, consciousness).  These elements change all the time and not a single element remains permanent for two consecutive moment.  With this insight, we touch reality and understand it is free from all notions.

The other shore is this shore.

Heaven is Here.

Hell is Here.

Past is Now.

Future is Now.

Is the notion of Nirvana opposing Nirvana? No because this notion is inclusive within the set that is Nirvana.

Traditional concept of Eternal life after death is a misunderstood concept.  It can only be eternal if you choose death.  But by choosing death it is a life in itself.  The answer is that life has no symbolic meaning.  It just is.  Because life is not life, it is truly life.

Kill the Buddha if you see him.

Live the life of eternity within Time.  Travel the infinite universe within Space.  Simply live.

Experience, not talk, not think.

When conditions are sufficient, things manifest and we perceive.  When conditions are not sufficient, things do not manifest and we cannot perceive them. Our perceptions of “existing/non-existing” is a flawed one without an insight that all things are already there and have or will manifest depending on conditions that we are not aware of.  To truly understand this, we need to free our flawed perceptions. (A simple example is that of an unbloomed flower)

In the above, conditions analogy is close with the seeds of the mind.  Each seed in your mind grows based on the conditions presented to it.  The mindful gardener needs to exist to tend to this garden.

We suffer when we touch the waves.  When we touch the water we are liberated by the touch of Reality.

Up close, we see and feel the waves.  Standing far, all we see is the ocean.  The reality of nature reveals itself when we remove our perceptions.

Perceptions are bounded.  Absolute truth is unbounded.  If the truth is bounded, it is because it is a perception.

Touching the water means you have touched the wave.  Your perception transcends to insight.  The insight that everything in life seems to be a wave but it’s nature is really something else, like the water.

Enlightenment and awakening has nothing to do with intellectual, but it is from insight and experience.  It cannot be taught nor explained.  One can only outline the path of Enlightenment but not Enlightnement itself.

One thing I disagree with “Buddhism” is the letting go of concepts.  To let go is to form a concept.  Deep insight has nothing to do with letting go but understanding both A and non-A are required to achieve Nirvana.

Wrong view builds up an image of self instead of abandoning ideas of self.  The Self then empowers itself as an absolute truth and dismiss all other selfs as false.  This is dangerous view and leads to suffering, conflict and war.  Its nature is intolerance.  The reality and Right View is the exact opposite (inverse the speech earlier).

There is only doubt in our faith if our faith is not real.  It simply means we have not touched what is real in our faith and we have been holding onto a perception of our faith, or our faith is based on a perception and not on true insight.

I have not found God but I have found the path to understanding God.

I disagree with Buddhism that the path out of suffering is joy or the goal is transformation of suffering.  True enlightenment needs no notion of joy nor suffering.  One just is, with one’s nature and being and non being.

I disagree with Buddhism on notions of the importance of a Sangha.  It presents the illusion that strength requires community.  It is not a false statement but it is a misleading view.  True enlightenment does not need this requirement.  Notions of a sangha should be secondary in nature.

Do not have Faith in an idea/symbol/perception/future/idea of the future.  Have faith in your practice and experience, because only that allows you to experience Reality.

Spiritual experience is in the end a human experience.  It has to do with human consciousness.  It is not reserved nor special and everyone has the ability to experience Nature spiritually.

I used to perceive mountains as mountains, rivers as rivers.  When I stopped perceiving by practicing mindfulness, mountains are no longer mountains and rivers no longer rivers.  When I stopped perceiving and gain insight, mountains are mountains and rivers are rivers.

To touch the Universe, one needs to leave the Metaverse, and enter the Unverse.

There is no lifetime (indicating that there is death).  There is just life.  If there is no concept of beginning and end, the concept of death does not exist as well.  This symbol of a “lifetime” is extremely difficult to discard as it has been reinforced in one’s past and through our collective consciousness.

Enlightenment is to see that any conditions of the universe and life would be inconsequential (past/present/future civilizations, aliens/AI).  Everything is just is and will be.  Our life is just a story that we experience.  Only when we see this can we truly start living.

While deep Christianity resembles deep Buddhism, the slight difference is the projection of the non-beingto an external being called “God”.  Both spiritualities end with the cessation of self to nirvana but the Buddhist view is one that does not project this onto yet another self.

One has not arrived at Nirvana if one questions if Nirvana itself is a concept.  One has not seen God if the last question “does God exist” remain.  This means the path of insight is still incomplete and perceptions and notions still exist.

When we look deeply into the Nature of things, we realize all is nothing/everything/one thing, interrelated.  Our perceptions of things are different but the reality beyond our perception is that they only differ in their manifestations and conditions.

If you uproot people from their grounds of tradition, they will suffer.  To find common ground, we should find common ground on the nature of our suffering and not in the notions and ideas of our viewpoints.  To do otherwise is to perpetuate suffering without an effective dialogue.

True understanding comes from true practice (not ideas and dogma).  Understanding and love are values that transcends all dogma.

Non-self does not mean no self.  It means understanding that there is no notion of distinct selves, that everything cannot independently exist without everything else.

Unselfish is opposite of selfish as is Unself is opposite of Self.  The Unself is the insight that acting on the perception of Self leads to the suffering of other Selfs.  removing the notion of Self allows us to understand Unself and practice and live unselfishly.

One does not achieve Nirvana but merely arrives to Nirvana.

When you truly arrive to Nirvana, the concept of Nirvana in itself is abolished and becomes meaningless.  All that is left is insight and experience and practice.

What we lack and need is spirituality.  The scientific mind would always seek to understand the mechanics of Nature.  At best we perceive it in a relatable way to our existence, at worst it forms an unsheddable perception in our minds that blocks insight.  A spiritual practice of understanding Nirvana is critical in not losing that faculty of what defines us to be humans.  We are logical AND spiritual beings.  To lose either is to lose our humanity.

Nature manifests. We perceive.

I disagree with Buddishm in the idea that Nirvana is the ultimate reality.  Either that is insufficient or we should accept no one ever reaches Nirvana since it is infinite and unreachable and is simply a path and journey.

There is no destination.  There is only the path and the journey.  Reflecting on there are no way to obtain the Absolute Truth, but only the path to arrive and discover it through practice and experience.

Nihilism is an unfinished path to Nirvana.

We are slow to think and quick to judge.  We speak our thoughts before they are formed, we feel anger before we are hurt.  A bigger heart is all we need.

2022 prayer:  today I realized that what we coin the “Metaverse” is yet to come, I know it has always been there.  Generations of collective consciousness have created abstractions on our reality.  To touch and see the Universe that we have since lost touch with, we need to unsee the layers of Metaverses that we have created, to enter the Unverse that undos these meta concepts, so that we can live and experience the Universe once again.

Reality is layered by our perceptions.  To reveal all layers we need to stay open minded and think freely.  This can only be achieved through extinction or recognize the extinction of notions and ideas.  If our reality is infinitely layered, this provides a PATH to touching reality.

Just as I have found a glimmer of insight via thich nhat hanh, it is only possible by keeping an open mind and be observant.  There is everything to learn around us and with the guiding principles of Nirvana, we can hope to peer through the layered depths and touch reality.

I used to not believe in free will in a sense that we have control over our destinies through our free will, and at a certain point I understood the ideas behind fate.  I now understand that we have neither.  All there is is conditions for manifestation.  Once we understand this, we also understand and channel free will with the right energy, not to change the world to our perceptions, but to live a life harmonious with conditions and manifestations of the relative world around us.

To truly know is to I know.  I like to use the word “un” to remind that we have to undo our perceptions before we can reform them, not from a new basis but from insight.


How can the mind accept that it is both A or not A? It can’t because it isn’t naturally conditioned to deal with this conundrum in fact it is neither A nor not A nor both because it is nothing and everything. The one contains the all.

The gentle ripples look peaceful. The water is peaceful.

I am enlightened and I have found God is a false statement. The True statement is I am still and always on the path of enlightenment and finding God.

The world was not willed into existence nor is it created for you. It simply is. It manifests from conditions. It takes in all shapes and sizes, as Life manifests in every possible condition as consciousness manifests in every condition in every sentient being. It simply is. Nature simply is.

I did not choose my future. And for that I am fortunate. My future was not created from a deluded perception of myself although it has been at risk of becoming that. I never chose to learn programming, to work at Facebook, to leave Facebook.  The decisions and paths became clear in due time because the conditions allowed my mind to manifest those decisions.  It is not fate nor foresight of free will that created the path. It simple is conditions for manifestations.  Natural evolution can be thought from this point of view.

We are stuck in loops of symbols, our mind reinforce these symbols and the loops disappear.  The mind is uncomfortable with loops but is comfortable with symbols.  And from there we fail to realize and appreciate the loop.  The deluded mind sees a start and an end but a True mind sees that those points don’t exist.  It is also not a line for those denote an abstract ideas of the very points.  It is simply a formless spiral.  Our thoughts manifests based on conditions, just as this thought has beeen manifested from years of experience and exposure to reconditioning of thoughts from many sources.

I disagree with Buddhism in a sense that the path leads to liberation of suffering.  That is a concept in itself and Nirvana consumes it.  In the end there is no end goal, just a Path without a goal.  And the Path is different for different people.  Different for different conditions and manifestations.  A natural manifestation for a person isn’t goodness nor Peace nor evil nor hate.  We wish to prescribe an ideal outcome for all people but in the end that is still the narrow view.  So does this mean we are entrapped to our Fate? No because Fate is an illusion, and from this deeper understanding we know that there is free will in concepts despite the danger of concepts, to recognize that while we cannot change Nature and the nature of beings, we can change their conditions which determine manifestations.  In the end, humanity is an expression and manifestation of nature.  Who we are is how this manifestation happens under changing conditions of nature, and how we had and have and will continue to evolve.  Our conditions for manifestations are no longer simply due to Nature.  It is a self feeding loop as we introduce new layers of conditions.  That is the power of Nirvana, to slowly but surely unravel the tangle of abstractions and conditions and to glimpse at the loop.

I used to think simulation theory provided an explaination to consciousness and the nature of reality that it had the be the superset explaination that contains everything.  Now I know it never escapes the loop because the explaination isn’t the start and the end but rather the loop itself.  Assume we are in a simulation, then nothing changes the Nature of things and we still would have no answers to the beginnings and ends.  The exact solution is understanding there is no beginning and end.  It’s a concept that we create to comfort our mind.  All there is and will be is conditions for manifestations, a loop of changing form.  The concept of time itself is removed if we simply observed that only forms and conditions change.  In the human mind, this loop is increasingly obfuscated (our Universe is a Metaverse and to uncover it we need to undo our minds in an Unverse).  Only then will we see the Path and the Loop, and understand our power lies in changing the conditions for manifestation.

An oak tree grows because seeds for an oak tree receive the conditions to manifest.   Hatred and love grows because of conditions allowing it to manifest.  Science and logic advances because conditions in our collective consciousness allow it to manifest.

The One contains all.  The Universe is the multiverse.

The Metaverse is a poor choice of words.  It gives us the perceived sense that it is created to comfort the mind but it simply deludes the mind of its natural affinity to explore the infinite possibilities in this very single Universe.  Our mind tries to find an explaination for infinity and we require a theory to explain a beginning and end.  We simply are not satisfied with a definition of a single infinity because we are uncomfortable with these notions.  The Metaverse is not a solution, it is an added distraction hiding the loop.

Understanding conditional manifestation allows us to understand our mind, our consciousness and future consciousness in other beings (animals and AI).  in Nature, the loop of life that is in DNA is expressed both by its internal state and external conditions.  The conditioned mind and our thoughts are no different.  This view marries both fate and Free will.  Our environment and mechanical nature of our surrounding is fixed and fated but we have the free will to change our conditions.

Conditional manifestation or conditions for manifestation.

To touch God/Reality/Nirvana/Truth is to experience it, not by reasoning about it.  Reasoning can and only maybe reveal a path to begin this experience.  You cannot describe anything to anyone who has not or will not experience it.  True ideas and insight can only be received through experience and practice.

Un/de/dis/in/I/a prefix seem to have similar meanings but I prefer the neutral un prefix, which denotes simply a un forming of what was formed.

Our minds see and want to see symbols. The symbol of God, the logical perception of the world through material symbols, creating abstract symbols in maths and computing to simulate our world.  All this is great and powerful to help us understand our place in the world without physically acting on it until we decide to set our abstractions in motion.  However this very trend is moving drastically deeper in the realm of symbols and the Metaverse, and our understanding of the Universe is further masked through more abstractions and symbols, the same way code is layered and grows in complexity.  This tendency for the mind has not change, will not and never change.  Our only best path is to help our mind open a path but the mind must be willing to be untangled and see past the abstractions we have created.  Once you have freed your own mind and understand the conditions for your thoughts , you can be in a place to change the conditions for others being aware that change and manifestation for others never follow an absolute path but a relative path exploring the right conditions for each person.  Nature already gives us proof that there is no such thing as an absolute right view and the diversity of life in nature is proof of that.  The only Right view is the absence of a right view and the existence of all views.

My experience is shaped by my journey as a Christian, to a student of science, with influences from the Matrix, Wolfram, Hofstader, my wife, my parents, my sister, my conflicts and changing views of the world order, fear of loss of humanity against the inevitable unintended creation and birth of AI, thich nhat Hahn, but it has come full circle

I’ve always had a natural belief and realization that our reality is layered.  Layers of poverty, suffering, joy.  Nirvana has helped me touch and feel the most abstract or non-abstract layer of it all.

With the undoing mind in the Unverse and living with the “I” symbol, we can truly touch and experience the UnIverse without distractions from the Metaverse.


Mental dances with nature.
I stand before a lake.  The lake reflects the crane flying above it, capturing its beauty in a brief moment of time.  The water remains still and continues to reflect the air, mountains, and trees around it.  I leave the lake.  My mind reflects the memory of the scene.  The water behind me no longer reflects the air, mountains, and trees.  The water is the water as the air is air as the mountains is mountains and trees and trees.  It always has been.  I see in the past that the water forms the air which forms the trees and rivers that shape the mountain.  I see in the future that the water forms the air…. I let go of time. The water is the air is the mountain is the tree in a cycle that has always existed.  My mind reflects a new scene.   The water is the air is the mountain is the tree and is myself.  My mind now contains the whole reality and is no longer a scene.  My consciousness contains reality and reality contains my consciousness.  I am awake.

I do not hold power to the ideas that I have.  They do not belong to me.  On the contrary, they belong to everyone who has shaped me and was a condition for the manifestations of my thoughts.

I have never been more confident about the unknown.

To know is to not know, to unknow is to truly know.

Everyone has faith, even the unfaithful.  The key difference is if faith is put into a symbolic belief or an experiential practice.
