Nature is my teacher.  I don’t have time and spirit to put these to writings, but it might help to share them as I discover them along the way.

Everything else is a distraction.  Nature already provides a basis for everything.  Man derives a basis for subsequent things.  Those who truly understand Nature, will be freed of their understanding of their world, of any world they inhabit, because they understand one principle: “the basis that leads to everything else”.  You will no longer struggle, or complain, but appreciate, and from that understanding, build up to everything else.  The foundation is right.  This thinking is a basis for building.

Here are my meditations for today, new concepts I discovered.  I will continue to share more when I discover them.

The inexperienced gardener shapes Nature to his will.  The experienced gardener shapes his will to Nature.

A garden with a natural seed yields a natural scene, one that Man appreciates without training.  A garden with seeded by Man yields a scene based on one’s interpretation.  That seed maybe questionable due to understanding and interpretation of Nature, and may not be appreciated with or without training.  The study of the gardener is to understand the nature and Nature of such seeds, so that the gardener plants a seed that reflects the virtue of both Man and Nature, evoking emotions without training, speech or dialogue.

The thoughts above still derive and relate on thinking about “the gravity of spirals”.  And there is a natural spiral and a Man-driven spiral.  The former aligns closer to peace of heart, the latter aligns closer to the reasoning of Man shaping his destiny.

My understanding is the latter is inevitable.  Some people may or may not realize its true machinations.  The latter is unavoidable because Man creates and shapes it, and we align and are pulled with it, like a black hole.  The former can only be discovered through deliberate meditation (not mainstream meditation arrived by doing and thinking nothing, but a deeper meaning of meditation where one arrives to an understanding of their true heart and beliefs in the world, stripped influence and knowledge).



