# 02-02-2023

## Meaning of Life

I have been meaning to write for some time.  It's been a year since my last letter to myself.

Since my personal realization of concepts in the [Unverse](https://github.com/chrisrzhou/unverse), I have built up peace and understanding, by mindfully detatching from the symbol _I_ (or the ego), and experiencing a greater _Universe_.  The trees, birds, bees, and ants in my gardens continue to keep this _View_ in perspective.  It has always been this way.  And with that insight, I continue to resonate with my personal belief that:

> The meaning of life is to return to the innocence and boundlessness of a child.

We are born into a physical world as a child with a boundless mind.  We build up boundaries to survive in this world, but most of us leave the world with boundaries.  It maybe impossible to remove all these boundaries (or burdens), but I believe that as one is mindful about it, we can retrace the pure joy of life, as a child who is fascinated and finds joy in everything.  As I pick the weeds in my gardens, I cannot logically remember, but I can _feel_ the peace of picking flowers for hours (a story my parents told me).

## Fear of Life

This letter is mostly to capture my current feelings about [AGI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_general_intelligence), and a fatefully-timed moment to explore opportunities with [OpenAI](https://openai.com/), a company that I hold in both awe, and fear.  The sense of awe lies in the _people_ within the company that seem to uphold a desire to build AGI responsibly.  The sense of fear lies exactly in how it is difficult to uphold morality and values.  However, on mindful thinking, the fear dissipates, as I know how I would approach AGI if placed in a similar position.  The answer is simple: "I will do my best, and the universe will do the rest.".  And with such, I expect like-minded people to think and act the same, and with a group of people, the goal is strengthened, and the personal fear dissipates.

The fear now moves on, and resides in a different realm, in the realm of my own _personal_ fear.  This fear is a mindful realization of my _calling_.

My inner calling has always been with me as a child.  I am fascinated by the Universe, by Consciousness, by simulations, by knowledge.  A reading, nor understanding is never sufficient, as the learned concepts loop back on themselves.  I think, and as a result, continue to think.

So why am I fearful of my _calling_? To which many egos identify as a source of purpose?

My best answer to explain this feeling of fear of my own _calling_, is that I am afraid of the _Spiral_.

## Spiral of Life

I view life's journey as a _Spiral_.  Our lives can be represented by a moving point in a _Spiral_.  This _Spiral_ represents the _momentum_ of where one's life tends to go.

- Some people never see the _Spiral_, and they get pulled with the progress of change.  For people who are in harmony with the _Spiral_, they are happy.  For people who are not in harmony with the _Spiral_, they are frustrated.
- Some people see the _Spiral_, and they either ride or fight the progress of change.  For people who are in harmony with the knowledge of the _Spiral_, they are happy.  For people who are not in harmony with the knowledge of the _Spiral_, they go through tremendous stress trying to swim against the currents.  Sometimes they succeed and are rewarded, other times they drown in fatigue.

I have mostly been able to see and understand the _Spiral_, mindfully knowing what I can and cannot change, and how to find peace.

There is another property of the _Spiral_.  It can be either a _Sink_ or a _Source_.
- A _Spiral_ is a _Sink_ if we delve deeper in our thinking, with a risk of never able to see beyond the boundaries we keep building up ([Gödel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurt_G%C3%B6del)'s insight to formal systems can help understand how we tend to just expand an established systems to seek truths, only to ignore the fact that we are yet further sinking into the existing system).
- A _Spiral_ is a _Source_ if we explore outwards in our thinking, to arrive to thinking beyond the existing boundaries.  I have yet to find concrete words to describe this, but the closest analogy of a _Source_ of knowledge can be traced to a child's boundless mind and fascination with the _Universe_.

The above are ideas captured in prose.  I have a desire to capture these as pieces of artworks in the near future.

In my life's journey, I know that I have been slowly coming to an understanding of an _Internal Source_, in relation to the momentum of the _External Spiral_ that I have to mindfully evaluate to arrive to peace and understanding of my own life.

## Game of Life
Life is a game of choices.  With my current understanding of my thoughts and life, I am back to evaluating the choice of exploring an oppportunity with OpenAI.  I sense a personal [fear](#fear-of-life) with this decision as I know my inner calling is actually a _Sink_ that pulls me inwards to what I desire to know.  This inner calling is best summarized by an impromptu natural thought I shared with [Wojciech](https://openai.com/blog/authors/wojciech/):

> I want to understand intelligence (not just AI or AGI) more, to better understand myself.

My fear comes from exactly gaining this knowledge over time, which I believe will _Sink_ me in the _Spiral_'s momentum, and distract myself from finding the _Source_ of life's joy.

Yet, this fear is only an understanding, or perhaps misunderstanding.  It is simply a concept, to which can be detatched as I described in the [journey through the Unverse](https://github.com/chrisrzhou/unverse).  This detachment has to come with a _Natural_ focus and mindfulness.

I end this letter with loose thoughts from two childhoods that I understand of myself:

> [Thought-free] A boundless child picking wild flowers for hours.

> [Thought-full] A child that wishes to understand the _Nature_ of things, to understand himself better.

I am both a being of thought and heart.

It's time to continue playing this Game of Life.

My mom's wisdom should help guide my heart's decision:

> "Do the right thing, and not the thing that is right".
