# 2022-01-01

Dear myself,

I remember when I was 17 when I gave a sincere prayer to God.  No documented records remain but if the Heavens remember, I spoke with my heart the following prayer:

> "Dear God, today I leave the church and begin my path in finding you.  I know that you exist beyond the description of orthodox religion and ideas held by man.  If you are truly infinite, I will be able to find you in my own ways."

17 years later, today, I am 35 and I find myself on a rock in Hawaii, reading [Thích Nhất Hạnh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Th%C3%ADch_Nh%E1%BA%A5t_H%E1%BA%A1nh)'s the [The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching](https://openlibrary.org/works/OL115690W/The_heart_of_the_Buddha%27s_teaching) and trembling near the calming ocean waves, as I realized how my journey has brought me back to this same exact moment with a different prayer.

Thầy allowed me to reach an insight that faith is not in a moment nor an idea nor a destination.  It is simply the faith in practice.  The practice is to simply walk the path that your heart is aligned to, and from the walk comes the experience of knowing *You*.

*You* and *I* know better that the word "you" is simply a humanized pronoun, one that I understood for quite some time that *God*/*Universe*/*Nature*/*Buddha*/*Allah*/*Universe*/*You*/*I* essentially mean the same thing.  But a letter is written to an audience, and this will be the last time I write to *You* (and by extension to myself).

Ending this letter, there is a greater insight that I realized that I will share with *You*.

On initial realization, I spoke to myself that I am on the *Right* path of finding, touching, and truly experience the real *Universe*.

On deeper realization, I understood that there I can never understand nor arrive to *You*.  God is not "God", therefore God is truly *God*.  *God/Nature/Universe* cannot be reasoned, only experienced. That experience begins with a path and is set in motion with a walk.  It ends when the walk ends.  I also realized that while it seemed I had not started my path until recently, I was already on the path with the prayer I made 17 years ago.

I recited the same prayer 17 years ago with revised insights marked in **bold**:

> "Dear **Universe**, today I leave the church of **my mind and continue my path** in finding you.  I know that you exist beyond the description of orthodox religion and ideas held **by me**.  **You are** truly infinite, and I will **continue** to find you in my own ways by walking this path."

See *You* again in a few years!

Yours *Truly*, *Self*.
